# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
  In console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
  sql = "INSERT INTO...."

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
  the .save, .delete and .delete_all functions

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
  Because the id is assigned by the database so that it is unique

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
  When we save the object to the database we return the id that it is assigned and then assign it to the @id instance variable

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
  When we new up the instance it won't have an id

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
  because some act on the whole class ie delete_all and others work on singles instances, save, update.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
  An array is returned. As only one value in array we use [0] as first element. to access the id we then add ['id'] to get the id from the hash in the first element.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
  To limit typos? Avoid attack

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
  find by id takes in an integer as an arguement
  find by address takes in a string as an arguement

Q11. What are their return values?
  They return property objects
